JavaScript - Shuffle an array using sort and random (#1753)
enkidevs/curriculum: javascript/core/array-methods/shuffle-an-array-using-sort-and-random.md

Given the array:

```javascript
let array = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9];
```

You could sort it randomly using `Array.prototype.sort()`[1]:

```javascript
array.sort((a, b) => {
  return Math.random() - 0.5
});
// The order will be different
// every time
// [5, 4, 2, 1, 6, 3, 7, 8, 9]
```

> This is due to how the `Array.prototype.sort()` method works. The arrow function we pass as a argument will return a number, and depending on its value it will sort the array:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is due to how the `Array.prototype.sort()` method works. The arrow function we pass as an argument will return a number, and depending on its value it will sort the array:
```

Maybe also mention that the value can be positive, negative or `0`?

```suggestion
This is due to how the `Array.prototype.sort()` method works. The arrow function we pass as an argument will return a number, and depending on its value (if it is < 0, == 0, or > 0) it will sort the array:
```

Reviewer: Nevermind, I saw you added that underneath lol.

So only my first suggestion is relevant

> This is due to how the `Array.prototype.sort()` method works. The arrow function we pass as an argument will return a number, and depending on its value it will sort the array:

Reviewer: What do you think of:

```suggestion
This is due to how the `Array.prototype.sort()` method works. The comparator function we pass as an argument compares two values from the array on each sort cycle, let's call them `a` and `b`. Each comparison returns a number that determines if `a` or `b` come first in the sorted result:
```

Author: yes, this is much better.

- 0 -> `a = b`
- > 0 -> `a > b`

> - < 0 -> `b > a`

Reviewer: And then, in combination with the [suggestion above](https://github.com/enkidevs/curriculum/pull/1753/files#r358801519), we add:

- 0 -> sort order doesn't change
- > 0 -> `b` comes before `a`
- < 0 -> `a` comes before `b`

---
## Practice

Complete the code such that it will shuffle an array using `sort` and `random`.

```javascript
let arr = [3, 1, 4, 2, 7, 1]
arr.???((???) => {
  return ???.???() - 0.5
});

// arr = [4, 2, 7, 1, 1, 3]
```

* sort
* a, b
* Math
* random
* shuffle
* x
* arr
* prototype
* Array
* call
* apply

---
## Revision

The following code will ???

```javascript
let arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7];
arr.sort(() => {
  return Math.random() - 0.5;
});
```

* shuffle the array
* sort the array decreasingly
* do nothing to the array

---
## Footnotes

[1:Array.prototype.sort()]
This method, when used on its own, converts the elements of the given array into strings, and sorts them by comparing their sequences of UTF-16 code units value:
```js
let days = ['Monday', 'Tuesday', 'Wednesday', 'Thursday', 'Friday'];
days.sort();
console.log(days);
// Output:
// ['Friday', 'Monday', 'Thursday', 'Tuesday', 'Wednesday']
```

You can also pass a function as an argument. The function can take `(a, b)` as input, representing a pair of 2 elements in the array that the function will be called on. It must return a number, and depending on the returned number it means:
- 0 -> `a = b`
- > 0 -> `a > b`

> - < 0 => `a < b`

Reviewer: If we we're to apply my comments from above, this part would need a bit of adjustment too
